### [DPDK-based Implementation of Application-tailored Networks on End User Nodes](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7119762)

- **problem**
  - Application-tailored networks are customized networks optimized for application requirements.
  - they use custom protocol stacks and network virtualization to provide flexible and efficient communication.
  - End user nodes run a framework called NENA to connect to such networks at runtime.
  - The current NENA implementation runs on top of the operating system’s network stack and uses the Socket API
  - It allows to show the flexibility of application-tailored networks but limits NENA’s performance.

- **solution**
  - Packet I/O frameworks like Intel’s Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK) offer direct access to network interfaces and high performance.
  - So, such a packet I/O framework provides an opportunity to enhance NENA and investigate its performance
  - a new implementation of NENA with Intel’s Data Plane Development Kit and evaluate its performance
  - It uses shared memory rings and a message based API to interact with applications. Additionally, it directly accesses the node’s Ethernet interfaces and uses a flow table to map incoming packets to virtual network connections and protocol stacks.

- **conclusion**
  - Experiments with our prototype show that our framework can achieve high packet rates and saturate a 10 Gbit/s Ethernet link using two CPU cores.


<br>

- **abstract**
  - `application-tailored networks` are customized networks optimized for application requirements  
  - `application-tailored networks` use custom protocol stacks and network virtualization to provide flexible and efficient communication
  - End user nodes run a framework called `NENA` to connect to such networks at runtime.
  - `NENA` implementation runs on top of the operating system’s network stack and uses the Socket API.
  -  allows to show the flexibility of application-tailored network  but limits NENA’s performance.


- **introduction**
- user nodes connect to multiple custom networks which are optimized for specific use ca
-  custom networks which are optimized for specific use cases. These so called application tailored networks are enabled by network virtualization and use customized network structure as well as communication protocols.
- End user nodes run a framework called NENA [2] that allows to dynamically connect to application tailored networks at runtime
- `NENA` hides network details from applications by using a name-based API
- build DPDK NENA, a new version of the NENA framework based on DPDK


- **about NENA**
  - NENA is implemented as a middleware between the operating system and applications
  - NENA API [8] provides primitives to request access to content or services using names.
  - the most important primitives for end user nodes are get(name), put(name), and connect(name).
  - Netlets are containers for the customized network protocols.
  -
