### [High speed packet forwarding compiled from protocol independent data plane specifications](http://delivery.acm.org/10.1145/2960000/2959080/p629-laki.pdf?ip=209.147.139.226&id=2959080&acc=PUBLIC&key=B63ACEF81C6334F5%2EBD7B0059B564CDBA%2E4D4702B0C3E38B35%2E4D4702B0C3E38B35&__acm__=1519066605_144dec17b720cfd1e116328924d40217)

- **problem**
  - P4 is a high level language for programming network switches that allows for great flexibility in the description of packet structure and processing, independent of the specifics of the underlying hardware.

- **solution**
  - present our prototype P4 compiler in which the hardware independent and hardware specific functionalities are separated.
  - We have identified the requisites of the latter, which form the interface of our target specific Hardware Abstraction Library (HAL);
  - the compiler turns P4 code into a target independent core program that is linked to this library and invokes its operations.
  - The two stage separation improves portability: to support a new architecture, only the hardware dependent library has to be implemented. In the demo, we demonstrate the flexibility of our compiler with a HAL for Intel DPDK, and show the packet processing and forwarding performance of compiled switches in different scenarios.


- **conclusion**
  - Using our HAL for Intel DPDK, we managed to reach 13.04 and 10.10 Mpps (million packets per second) with a packet size of 64 bytes in a single core setup for the L2 and L3 programs compiled from P4 codes, respectively. For the same test traffic, the standard l2fwd example of Intel DPDK results in 14.88 Mpps. Using two cores, the 10 Gbps NIC is saturated even with the minimal packet size.
