### [DPDK and MKL; Enabling technologies for near deterministic cloud-based signal processing](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7182086)


- **abstract**
  - DPDK and MKL are two technologies proposed by Intel that can be used for that purpose
  - using operating system isolation to reduce the computation time variability for LTE processes
  - MKL offers excellent performance, but as it is not scalable by itself over the cloud, combining it with DPDK is a
very promising alternative.
  - DPDK allows improving performance, memory management and makes MKL scalable.

- **conclusion**
  - Intel DPDK is an excellent technology for supporting highly scalable execution of computing applications such as LTE over a multiprocessor platform.
  - It is designed for workload consolidation and provides a deterministic environment to compute LTE processes by isolating CPUs
from the kernel scheduler and by performing load balancing.
  - DPDK along with MKL and isolated cpu from interrupting tasks would decrease the mean and the standard deviation of computation times of FFT by 99 and 95 percent, respectively.
  - It was also observed that although MKL offers excellent performance in terms of computation times.
  - processing FFTs with MKL was approximately 100 times faster than running a straight C implementation of the same FFT.
  - However, it is not scalable and therefore not directly suitable for large scale cloud-based applications.
  - DPDK allows to improve performance significantly while making MKL adaptable in a scalable way can be very significant



- **definition of MKL**
  - Intel® Math Kernel Library
  - Features highly optimized, threaded, and vectorized math functions that maximize performance on each processor family
